
How does covid COVID-19 replicate?

The whole family of coronaviruses are called coronavirus because corona means crown and that is how the virus looks under a microscope. 4-5 of coronaviruses cause common diseases among humans. Other kinds of coronaviruses only infect animals and sometimes and very rarely a coronavirus jumps from animals to the human population. COVID-19 is getting a lot of attention now because it is a new kind of coronavirus that we haven’t seen among humans before. Lots of people assume and there are a ton of theories that suggest this coronavirus has jumped from an animal to the human population. Lots of people are concerned because there is no cure, it spreads really easily, and who knows how many more cases are there going to be? Since this is a respiratory virus it will spread in droplets like when you sneeze or cough. The droplets can land on surfaces and can also be transmitted from person to person or when you touch a surface that the person has sneezed or coughed on. The smaller droplets can stay in the air for about 2 hours so you can also get it from breathing the small droplets in. How does your body replicate COVID-19? The coronavirus must infect living cells in order to reproduce. Inside of the virus genetic material contains the information to make duplicates of itself. A shell made of protein provides the virus with a hard protective enclosure for the virus as the virus travels between the people it infects. An outer layer on top of the protein shell allows the virus to infect cells by merging with the cells outer membrane. Protruding from the layer are the spikes made of protein molecules. The coronavirus uses its spikes like a key to enter a cell. Where it takes over a cells internal machinery, repurposing it to build the components of new viruses. When an infected person talks, coughs, or sneezes, droplets may land in your mouth or nose and then be carried over to your lungs. Once inside your body the virus comes in contact with the cells in your throat,  nose, or lungs. One spike on the virus inserts itself on a receptor molecule on your healthy cell membrane like a key in a lock. This action allows the virus to get inside your cell. The coronavirus can then directly access parts of the hosts cell called ribosome. Ribosomes use genetic information from the virus to make viral proteins. Such as the spikes on the viruses surface. A packaging structure inside of your cell then carries the spike in vesicles which then merge with your cells outer layer, the cell membrane, all the parts needed to make a new virus gathered just beneath your cells membrane. Then a new virus starts to form from the cells membrane. That is how the virus replicates itself.
