A Horcrux is an object in which a Dark wizard or witch has hidden a fragment of their soul for the purpose of being immortal. Horcruxes can only be created after committing murder, the worst kind of evil. The process for the creation of a Horcrux involves a spell and a horrific act is performed soon after the murder has been committed. There are usually protective measures made to prevent a Horcrux from being stolen and destroyed, such as Counter-Charms and curses. The Horcrux is considered the most terrible of all dark magic.The first known Horcrux was created by Herpo the Foul in Ancient Greece. The only other known creator of a Horcrux was Lord Voldemort, who was likely the only person to have successfully created more than one Horcrux.The nature and concepts of Horcruxes were so terrible, they were kept secret from most of the wizarding world, and very few people were ever made aware of their nature. Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry banned any study of the subject of Horcruxes. Albus Dumbledore was particularly adamant in enforcing this rule.Destroying a Horcrux required that the object containing the soul fragment be damaged to a point beyond any and all physical or magical repair. When a Horcrux was damaged to that point, it may appear to "bleed" (ink in the case of Tom Riddle's diary and a "dark blood-like substance" in the case of Ravenclaw's Diadem) and a scream may be heard as the soul fragment perished. However, as a safety measure to protect one's immortality and precious soul fragment, the creator would usually place powerful enchantments onto the artefact to prevent damage. It was unknown if the creator of the Horcrux would be able to sense that their soul fragment was destroyed, although Dumbledore stated that in the particular case of Voldemort, he would not feel their loss because his soul had been split too many times and had been in that state for too long.All known methods of Horcrux destruction required the "receptacle" to be damaged beyond repair (which, in the case of living receptacles, meant that they must be killed).For example, methods were Fiendfyre (as evidenced by the destruction of Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem), which required extreme skill to control, the Killing Curse on living Horcruxes. However, Harry Potter was never an intentional Horcrux and so it may not work on a proper animate Horcrux (like Nagini) and probably had unforeseen side effects, along with Basilisk venom and the touch of sacrificial love. This was seen on Professor Quirrell when he was destroyed by Harry Potter's touch.
Harry Potter and Hermione Granger both used the fangs of Salazar Slytherin's Basilisk to destroy Tom Riddle's Diary and Helga Hufflepuff's Cup.This was only able to be done, as basilisk venom was a destructive enough substance capable of destroying Horcruxes. Although beyond repair when exposed to this venom, living Horcruxes could potentially be saved through the speedy administration of phoenix tears, an extremely rare substance. Fawkes demonstrated this ability for Harry when he was bitten by the basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets. Because he was a living Horcrux himself, Harry was not destroyed then because the tears saved his life.Albus Dumbledore, Ron Weasley, and Neville Longbottom all used Godric Gryffindor's Sword to destroy Marvolo Gaunt's Ring, Salazar Slytherin's Locket and Nagini. This was only able to be done as goblin-wrought silver was a destructive enough metal capable of absorbing qualities that strengthened. The sword demonstrated this ability for Harry Potter when he used it to slay the basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets. Because it was made of goblin-wrought silver itself, the sword was imbued with basilisk venom and became capable of destroying Horcruxes.The main purpose and power of a Horcrux is to anchor the creator to the mortal realm for the sake of achieving immortality. As long as at least one Horcrux exists, the creator's soul will be bound to the world of the living. Hence, if the body is destroyed, the soul will remain as a lingering spirit instead of passing through to the other side. Though being in such a state of existence is what very few would prefer over death, the soul can possess others to regain physical form, which shortens the host's lifespan drastically. It is also possible to use certain potions to create a rudimentary body or even the true body of the Horcrux creator's soul to possess. Because of this purpose, a Horcrux is usually kept hidden and dormant, and its other powers are rarely explored or utilised.